2024 S C M R 1000

[Lahore High Court]

Before: Mr. Justice Sardar Tariq Masood

Cr. Misc. (Bail) No. 2132/2025
Waqar Younis Cheema … Petitioner
versus
The State … Respondent

Counsel for petitioner: Mr. Hafiz S. A. Rehman, Advocate
Counsel for State: Mr. Asad Ali Bajwa, Deputy Prosecutor General

Date of FIR: 18.04.2026
FIR No.: 115 of 2025, P.S. Sadar, District Faisalabad.
Offence: trespass into agricultural land (Section PPC 447).
Date of arrest: 4.01.2026.
Custody so far: approximately 139 days.

ORDER

Through this petition under Section 497(2), Cr.P.C. 1898, the petitioner seeks
post-arrest bail in case FIR No. 115 registered at P.S. Sadar,
District Faisalabad, for an offence punishable under Section PPC 447 of the
Pakistan Penal Code.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on the date noted above the
complainant lodged the above-mentioned FIR alleging trespass into agricultural land. The petitioner
was arrested and has remained in judicial custody since then. The
investigation has been concluded and challan stands submitted before the
learned trial court.

3. Learned counsel for the petitioner contends that the alleged offence does
not fall within the prohibitory clause of Section 497(1), Cr.P.C.; that the
petitioner is not a previous convict; that civil dispute disguised as criminal; and that further
detention is not required for the purpose of investigation. Reliance is
placed on the principle that grant of bail in offences not falling within the
prohibitory clause is the rule and refusal an exception. See "Tariq Bashir
v. The State" PLD 1995 SC 34 (re-affirmed in numerous subsequent
pronouncements).

4. Learned Deputy Prosecutor General, while opposing the petition, fairly
concedes that the offence does not attract the prohibitory clause but contends
that the petitioner has a propensity to repeat the offence.

5. I have heard the arguments and perused the record. The case of the
petitioner falls within the non-prohibitory clause of Section 497, Cr.P.C.
The petitioner has been behind bars for 139 days. The challan
stands submitted; further custody will not aid the investigation. The
plea raised by the prosecution as to propensity is not supported by any
material on the record.

6. In view of the foregoing, this petition is ALLOWED. The petitioner is
admitted to post-arrest bail subject to furnishing bail bonds in the sum of
Rs. 50,000/- with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the
learned trial court.

7. The observations made hereinabove are tentative and shall not prejudice
the trial.

PETITION ALLOWED.